# Terlizzi and Minckley (2025) Supplemental Materials
This repository contains all of the data and code used in the analysis of Terlizzi and Minckley (2025) published in Quaternary Research. 
## What can I do with this code? 
Within this repository are 4 RMarkdown files, each executing different portions of the analysis done in the above paper. The file named raw_smth_calc.RMD contains the code used to smooth each of the sites to 1000-year resolution and to a temporal range from 0 to 150 cal ka BP. A 100000-year sliding window average is used to generate the smoother for each of our selected site pollen records. Within the file named BIEN_trait_import.RMD is the code used to access observation data for seven preselected plant functional traits for specific plant taxa from the BIEN trait database. The code is also used to filter out traits for aquatic taxa and taxa not native to North America. Using the trait data imported from BIEN, the code calculates trait averages for each taxon used in the analysis of Terlizzi and Minckley (2025). The file labeled hill_calculations.RMD contains the code used to calculate the diversity estimates used in Terlizzi and Minckley (2025). The code contains the necessary steps to calculate three orders of taxonomic and functional Hill numbers (q=0, q=1, and q=2) based on the formulas outlined in Chao et al. (2014; https://doi.org/10.1890/13-0133.1) and Chiu and Chao (2014; https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0100014). The code uses the relative proportions of each taxon and the functional trait averages to generate the aforementioned diversity indices. The file labeled figure_code.RMD contains the code used to generate all of the figures used in Terlizzi and Minckley (2025).
## How can I run this code?
The four R Markdown files mentioned above must be run in a specific order to ensure the proper files exist for each script to run. Following the steps below will enable all of the files to be executed properly.

1. Download and install R for your operating system
2. Download and install RStudio for your operating system
3. Download a zip file of this repository and unpack it in an easy to find directory on your computer
4. Navigate to the directory and double-click the quat_plant_div.Rproj file to start RStudio and load this project.
5. Open the four R Markdown files (raw_smth_calc.RMD, BIEN_trait_import.RMD, hill_calculations.RMD, figure_code.RMD) within the R project.
6. R Markdown files should be run in the order listed above: raw_smth_calc.RMD -> BIEN_trait_import.RMD -> hill_calculations.RMD -> figure_code.RMD, however within this repository are all of the output files for each script enabling any script to be run in any order. If any modifications are made to the sites or taxa, the scripts will all need to be rerun in the correct order. 
7. R Markdown files can be run either by pressing the 'knit' button or by running each code chunk independently.
